= Goh Si Ning - Project Portfolio
:site-section: AboutUs
:relfileprefix: team/gohsnn
:imagesDir: ../images
:stylesDir: ../stylesheets

== About Jarvis
Jarvis is the product of the team project by my
https://se-edu.github.io/docs/Team.html[team] of 4 software engineering
students and I under the http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg[School of Computing,
National University of Singapore] module CS2103T Software Engineering. We were
tasked with enhancing a basic command line interface (CLI) desktop address-book
application, and we decided to morph it into an all encompassing student life
organiser which enables students to track and manage their tasks, finances,
co-curricular activities (CCAs) and courses taken at NUS.

As students, we often need to access many different applications daily in order
to manage individual aspects of our life. Our team hopes that Jarvis will make
things easier for students by providing a platform that consolidates the most
important features. Therefore, Jarvis has 4 separate features for each concern
faced by students: Planner, Finance Tracker, Cca Tracker, and Course Planner.

=== About Finance Tracker

For this project, I was in charge of implementing the Finance Tracker feature,
which keeps track of the user's purchases and monthly subscriptions (aka
installments), as well as total monthly expenditure and remaining budget if the
user has added a monthly spending limit for himself.

Shown below is the graphical user interface (GUI) of Jarvis. Our application consists
of 4 different tabs - one for each of the above-mentioned features. The
application is currently at the Finance Tracker tab, which is underlined in red.
When the user enters a command in the command box, Jarvis will return a response
(whether his command was successfully executed, or if not, why it was rejected)
in the result box.

.The graphical user interface for Jarvis under the Finance Tracker tab
image::gohsnn/finance-tracker-ui.png[]

In addition to developing both the front-end and back-end of the Finance
Tracker feature, I also contributed to adopting the original version of the
developer's guide as well as most of the diagrams in the final developer guide.
The following sections will illustrate these enhancements in more details as
well as the relevant documentation in the user and developer guides in relation
to these enhancements.

== Summary of Contributions

This section shows a summary of my coding, documentation, and other helpful
contributions to the team project.
{sp} +

=== Enhancement Added - Finance Tracker

==== Description of enhancement

As mentioned above, I was in charge of the Finance Tracker feature. This
allowed the users to be able to track their purchases and monthly installments,
as well as track the amount that they are spending with respect to the limit
they have set for themselves.

Users are able to add, delete, and find purchases as well as add, delete, and
edit installments. In addition, they can set a monthly spending limit for
themselves. Our application will then keep track of their total spending and
send warnings when their spending limit is close to being reached or has been
exceeded.

==== Justification
As university students, we are expected to take care of more finances such as
monthly phone bills and credit card bills. Furthermore, we have a lot of daily
purchases that we might easily lose track of. Thus, the Finance Tracker feature
will allow the user to better manage his monthly spendings and ensure he does
not overspend unknowingly.

For his convenience, the user does not need to add the date of purchase as
Jarvis will automatically tag today's date to the user's purchase. Each
installment subscription fee is also only added to the total monthly
expenditure once.

==== Code contributed

Please click to see my code contribution on
https://nus-cs2103-ay1920s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/#search=gohsnn&sort=groupTitle&sortWithin=title&since=2019-09-06&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=false&groupSelect=groupByRepos&breakdown=false&tabOpen=true&tabType=authorship&tabAuthor=gohsnn&tabRepo=AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1%2Fmain%5Bmaster%5D[Reposense]
as well as my
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+author%3Agohsnn[pull requests on GitHub].

==== Documentation

All sections related to the Finance Tracker in the user guide and developer
guide were done by me. They will be elaborated in the later sections, namely
<<link-contributions-to-user-guide, Contributions to User Guide>> and
<<link-contributions-to-developer-guide, Contributions to Developer Guide>>.

{sp} +

=== Other Contributions

==== Enhancements to existing features

Due to extensive testing on the Finance Tracker feature, I was able to
contribute to increasing the overall test coverage from 71.46% to 75.54%. This
can be viewed from pull request
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/137[#137].

In addition, I revised the overall user interface to change the order of the
tabs. This increased the cohesiveness of the application from the perspective
of a student using Jarvis, according to the frequency that they would access
each feature. This can be viewed from pull request
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/362[#362].

==== Community

I have also reviewed several pull requests from my team mates (with non-trivial
review comments), as can be seen from pull requests
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/104[#104],
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/136[#136], and
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/361[#361].

In addition, my code for the Finance Tracker feature I implemented was taken by
my team mate to adopt for his Cca Tracker feature. This was due to the
extensive OOP I had practiced throughout my code, which he also thought was a
good design to follow. This can be seen from pull request
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/107[#107].

Lastly, I reported bugs and offered helpful suggestions for  another
application created by my fellow cohort mates. This can be seen from the
following examples in this https://github.com/gohsnn/ped/issues[link].

==== Documentation

This section will summarise my contribution to the overall set of documentation
for the team project, excluding the Finance Tracker feature, which would be
elaborated from <<link-contributions-to-user-guide, here>>.

===== User Guide

I made changes to the existing user guide to standardise how each section was
displayed in terms of the language used in explanation of the commands and the
format of example commands given. This greatly improved the cohesiveness of
the user guide and made it more reader-friendly. This can be viewed from pull
request
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/176[#176].

===== Developer Guide

Most of the initial version of the developer guide adopted from the previous
application was done by me, as can be seen from pull request
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/14[#14]. This includes
adding the use cases, non-functional requirements as well as glossary.

In the latest version of the developer guide, I was responsible for most of the
class, activity and sequence diagrams for the entire team. While there were
existing diagrams made by my team mate for a previous version of the developer
guide, these diagrams needed to be changed as:

1. They did not strictly follow the guidelines of the project, or
2. They did not reflect the updated implementation of some features made by the
team in the subsequent few weeks.

In addition, I repackaged the diagrams for easier perusal by my team mates for
their documentation. The above-mentioned can be viewed from the pull requests
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/368[#368],
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/371[#371], and
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/pull/373[#373].

The following are examples of diagrams that I created for my fellow team mates
using plantUML.

.HistoryManagerModelClassDiagram for the Undo-Redo feature
image::HistoryManagerModelClassDiagram.png[height="200", align="center"]

.IncreaseCcaProgressActivityDiagram for the Cca Tracker feature
image::IncreaseCcaProgressActivityDiagram.png[height="400", align="center"]

[[link-contributions-to-user-guide]]
== Contributions to User Guide

As we morphed the existing address-book application, we had to update the
original user guide to reflect the changes in features implemented. My team
decided to have each member responsible for their feature to write their own
documentation in the user guide. Thus, the Finance Tracker section was done
mostly by me.

The section will contain excerpts from our Jarvis User Guide, showing additions
that I have made with my Finance Tracker feature. The command that I would be
illustrating is the `find-paid` command.

=== Search for a purchase with keyword(s)
This command searches through the existing purchases stored in Jarvis and
displays to the user all purchases which have descriptions matching the keyword
input by the user.

The following contains a modified excerpt from our user guide:

To have a quick view to see what you have been eating for dinner over the last
month, you can used `find-paid` to pull up purchases with descriptions matching
`KEYWORD` provided.

Format: `find-paid KEYWORD`

.Step 1: Enter `find-paid` command in command box
image::gohsnn/find-paid1.png[align="center"]

.Step 2: Jarvis displays all matching purchases to keyword
image::gohsnn/find-paid2.png[align="center"]

NOTE: If there are no existing purchases in the application that matches
the keyword given by the user, the result box will display the following message:

.No purchases found in Finance Tracker
image::gohsnn/find-paid3.png[align="center"]

For examples of more commands for the Finance Tracker feature, please click to
view our
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/blob/master/docs/UserGuide.adoc#finance-tracker[user guide].


[[link-contributions-to-developer-guide]]
== Contributions to Developer Guide

Similar to the user guide, my team also decided that each member should be
responsible to write their own documentation in the developer guide for their
individual feature. The following section shows my addition to the Jarvis
Developer Guide for the Finance Tracker feature. It will contain modified
excerpts from the developer guide.

=== Finance Tracker Model

The Finance Tracker mechanism is facilitated by the `FinanceTrackerModel`
interface, which is implemented by `Model`. This allows the model to be
associated with the finance tracker feature and provides an interface between
the components of the feature and the updating of the overall model.

Some of the more significant methods within the `FinanceTracker` are shown
below:

* `Model#addPurchase(Purchase)` - Adds a single use payment to the top of the
list

* `Model#deletePurchase(Index)` - Deletes single use payment at that index

* `Model#addInstallment(Installment)` - Adds an installment

* `Model#deleteInstallment(Index)` - Deletes installment at that index

* `Model#setInstallment(Installment, Installment)` - Replaces an existing
installment with a new installment

* `Model#calculateTotalSpending()` - Calculates the total expenditure by the
user for this month

* `Model#calculateRemainingAmount()` - Calculates the remaining spending amount
available to user

=== Components of the Finance Tracker

The Finance Tracker feature closely follows the extendable OOP solution already
implemented within AB3. In the Finance Tracker, the `Installment` objects and
the `Purchase` objects manage most aspects related to this feature, along with
a single `MonthlyLimit` object. `Installment` and `Purchase` objects are stored
in their respective `ObservableList` - `InstallmentList` and `PurchaseList`,
which provide an abstraction with `add`, `delete`, and `set` operations that
are called by `FinanceTracker` and its model.

Shown below is the class diagram for the Finance Tracker.

.Finance Tracker Class Diagram
image::ModelFinanceTrackerClassDiagram.png[height="350", align="center"]

For more elaboration on the components of the Finance Tracker feature, please
click to view our
https://github.com/AY1920S1-CS2103T-T10-1/main/blob/master/docs/DeveloperGuide.adoc#finance-tracker-feature[developer guide].

=== Implementation

To demonstrate the implementation of the Finance Tracker feature, I will be
elaborating on the command that allows the user to edit an existing installment
with the fields he has specified.

==== User enters command `edit-install`

The user has to specify the index of the installment he wishes
to edit, as well as any of the fields he wishes to change. If the index does
not exist, the system will inform the user of the error. As long as the
fields provided by the user to be edited are valid (prefixed with "d/" and
"a/"), the correct installment will be accurately edited. This is
reflected in the activity diagram below.

NOTE: An index is considered invalid if the numerical value provided is less
than or equal to zero, or greater than the largest index in `InstallmentList`.

.Activity Diagram for edit-install command
image::EditInstallmentActivityDiagram.png[align="center"]

==== Execution of command `edit-install`

The following sequence diagram illustrates how an
`Installment` is edited when a user types in a `edit-install` command.

In the execute method of EditInstallmentCommand, the calling of the
`#setInstallment` method at the `Model` level triggers a cascading series of
`#settInstallment` method which culminates in target installment being edited
with the corresponding fields.

.Sequence Diagram for edit-install command
image::EditInstallmentSequenceDiagram.png[height="250", align="center"]

=== Design Considerations

When designing the implementation of the Finance Tracker feature, I had to
think of the best way to create and manage the various objects in the Finance
Tracker as there were many sub-components. Thus, I had to consider whether to
encapsulate the fields of the `Installment` and `Purchase` objects.

==== Current choice

Our current choice was to encapsulate the constituent objects in `Installment`
and `Purchase` objects in their own wrapper classes. As mentioned above,
`Installment` would contain `InstallmentDescription` and `InstallmentMoneyPaid`
objects while `Purchase` would contain `PurchaseDescription` and
`PurchaseMoneySpent` objects. The following is the analysis surrounding this
design choice.

Pros: Increases OOP (hides implementation; increases extensibility and
maintainability of objects)

Cons: Major changes to current code base; steep increase in code due to greater
abstraction

==== Alternative

The alternative would have been to leave the corresponding fields as
primitive data types. This would have been the easier alternative at the time
as it was the original implementation. Furthermore, since the `Installment`
and `Purchase` objects were not extremely complex, further encapsulation might
not have been imperative.

==== Our Thoughts

Taking the long-term vision of the application to be continuously developed
into consideration, I decided to increase OOP as much as possible. The decision
was also based on following good software engineering principles.
